# Shared Wallet Schema Documentation

This directory contains JSON schemas and example files for the shared wallet structure based on CIP-1854.

## Schemas

### `shared-wallet-schema.json`

This schema defines the structure of a shared wallet.
It includes metadata about the wallet and a reference to the native script.
The metadata contains the shared wallet name and a list of participants, each with a name and an Ed25519KeyHash public key.

### `cardano-babbage.json`

This schema defines various types used in Cardano transactions, including definitions for native scripts, addresses, and other related types.

## Examples

### `shared-wallet-scriptAll-example.json`

This example demonstrates a shared wallet using the `ScriptAll` native script type,
which requires all specified scripts to validate for the transaction to be considered valid.

### `shared-wallet-scriptAny-example.json`

This example demonstrates a shared wallet using the `ScriptAny` native script type,
which requires at least one of the specified scripts to validate for the transaction to be considered valid.

### `shared-wallet-scriptNOfK-example.json`

This example demonstrates a shared wallet using the `ScriptNOfK` native script type,
which requires a minimum number (`N`) of the specified scripts to validate for the transaction to be considered valid.

## Schema Validation with Zod

### Running Your JSON Schema Against a Validator Sandbox

You can run your schema against a validator online using <https://zod-playground.vercel.app/>.

### Your Reference for Comprehensive Zod Documentation

How to validate, information on types and inference can be found on <https://zod.dev/>.

### Generating a Zod Schema Online

You can generate a Zod compatible schema from a JSON schema online using <https://stefanterdell.github.io/json-schema-to-zod-react/>.

### Zod Usage Example

The following code snippets show how to validate using Zod.

#### Raw Parsing

```js
try {
  const result = sharedWalletJsonSchema.parse(<my json schema>);
  console.log("Schema is valid.")
} catch (e) {
  console.error("Validation error:", e.errors);
}
```

#### Safe Parsing (Verbose Errors)

Safe parsing does not throw errors, but rather logs them as part of the returned object. It is preferrable when you need to know what went wrong in the validation.

```js
try {
  const result = sharedWalletJsonSchema.safeParse(<my json schema>);

  if (result.errors) {
    console.log("Schema has errors: ", errors);
  }

  console.log("Schema is valid.");
  return result.data;
} catch (e) {
  console.error("Other potential errors:", e.errors);
}
```

## Regenerating TypeScript Types

To regenerate the TypeScript types from the JSON schema, use the following command:

```sh
npx --package json-schema-to-typescript -c 'json2ts shared-wallet-schema.json > shared-wallet-types-autogenerated.ts'
```
